    +++
title = "My favourite albums of 2022"
[taxonomies]
Tags = ["Music"]
+++

A long overdue post, but during 2022, I listened to a lot of music.
This is a list of some of my favourite albums from last year.
It's in alphabetic order, because actually ranking albums is very hard when they're very different styles.
I tried to write something about each album, but mostly it's just that I like the music.
I find it very hard to quantify why I like some music but don't like other music, so don't expect any in-depth reviews.

<!-- more -->

## Anna Von Hausswolff - Live at Montreux Jazz Festival

I love Anna Von Hausswolff.
Not much else to say: whatever she does, I'm gonna like.
This live album is no different.

## Backxwash - HIS HAPPINESS SHALL COME FIRST EVEN THOUGH WE ARE SUFFERING

An ex-colleague of mine introduced me to Backxwash.
While definitely more on the abrasive side of my music tastes, it's still a great album.

## Black Flower - Magma

Some nice Belgian jazz.
A long time ago, my dad introduced me to Nathan Daems (the lead artist of this band) with Nathan Daems Quintet - Praten Dialect.
I've been a fan ever since.

## Carly Rae Jepsen - The Loneliest Time

Some great pop.
Not as good as E•MO•TION or Dedication, but still good stuff.

## Cassandra Jenkins & Suhail Yusuf Khan - Chale Jaana: Cassandra Jenkins & Suhail Yusuf Khan Live

2021's "An Overview on Phenomenal Nature" was great, but these live versions are something else.

## Charlotte Adigéry & Bolis Pupul - Topical Dancer

Deewee does not miss.
Funny, good beats, nice singing: this album has it all.

## Eliza McLamb - Salt Circle

Great lyrics, great singing.

## Ethel Cain - Preacher’s Daughter

This one took a while to grow on me, but the concept alone makes this one of the best albums of 2022 for me.

## Florist - Florist

Florist does not miss.
My dad would probably classify this as "campfire music", but I see nothing wrong with that.

## Jenny Hval - Classic Objects

Jenny Hval has a certain directness in her lyrics that I love.
So clear while simultaneously also containing a deeper message.

## King Hannah - I'm Not Sorry, I Was Just Being Me

Great band, great music.
I saw them live in 2023 and promptly bought a shirt (the design of the shirt was also quite nice).

## Lucy Dacus - Kissing Lessons

Just a single, but I can't not put Lucy Dacus in here right?

## MUNA - MUNA

Queer electropop, what else is there to say?
I discovered them through a cover that Marika Hackman did of Pink Light and have been a fan ever since.
(Phoebe Bridgers' appearance on Silk Chiffon also helps...)

## Pinegrove - 11:11

I actually only really started listening to Pinegrove after being dragged to a concert of theirs by my brother, but they quickly rose to one of my most-listened artists.
11:11 is a great album and unfortunately it seems like it might be their last (so I'm very glad my brother dragged me along).

## Shabason & Krgovich - At Scaramouche

Krgovich really took me in with 2018's "Ouch", but At Scaramouche also really grabbed my attention.

## Wet Leg - Wet Leg

Imagine releasing this as your debut album.
Funny lyrics, great instrumentation, and a great scream 😀.
